# Smart Editor ## DescriptionThe Smart Editor is a new widget that extends the core editing widget with the following features:* Smart attributes, attributes can be hidden, required, or disabled based on the values of other fields* Edits not saved until user clicks save and records are validated* Ability to view pop ups from other data while in “edit session”* Ability to preset field values across many fields on many layers and apply them to every new feature* Ability to edit a series of features* Option to move or modify existing geometry* Only changed records are submitted to service, not the entire record* Option to update a feature attribute only* Configurable descriptions on both the widget and per each layer
* Feature action added that allows user to create a new feature based on the geometry and attributes of an existing feature.  Works with single or multiple selected features (such as from Select widget results).  When triggered, the user is shown a dialog with the template selector on it that user can select which feature type to be created.  Attributes in the feature being copied with the same name and data type in the new feature template are copied across. The copy action will request non-generalised geometry if the datasource is a map service.
*    ### CHANGE LOG**10 JUN 2017** - Copy Feature Action and dialog added to widget to initiate a copy process of selected features or drawings.  Currently only implemented for singe features (copy multiple has place holder at this point).  Also work required on copying across existing attributes if they match. **21 NOV 2017** - Port to WAB 2.6.  Bug fix for missing css styles for drawing options (missed when originally copied from standard Smart Editor code).  Operation Links functionality added to widget so that link buttons that open/redirect the current browser to a new location/web action can be added to the widget via config.  These link buttons can be configured to include a parameter from the calling URL or from the preset field values. Available template filtering based on URL parameter values added, and the template filter box will now apply multiple filters if separate search terms are entered in a comma delimited list e.g. entering water,soil in the template filter input box will display all templates that include the words water or soil in their name or description.  Copy feature action now supports multiple features being copied.Modification to hide preset fields block if configured.  Used in functionality to allow population of preset fields from value supplied in URL parameter.  This is an extension to the preset functionality to update existing features as well as set values for new features based on URL parameters.Modification to handle updating the snap manager to include layers added via things like the add data tool.  Currently requires the smart editor widget be opened before new layers are added into the map. **14 FEB 2018** - Cut, merge and explode functionality added to the widget, along with enhanced edit feature selection tools.Select editable feature option extended to include select by point, select by intersecting line, select by intersecting rectangle and select by intersecting polygon.  Requires user select option from drop down each time to enable the tool.Cut tool added for breaking line or polygon features into multiple parts.  Requires a single line or polygon feature be selected to be enabled.Merge tool added for combining two or more selected editable line or polygon features from the same editable layer into a single feature.  The attributes of the feature that has focus in the attribute inspector are preserved. If any point features are selected, the tool is disabled.  If features from more than one editable layer are selected, the tool is disabled.Explode multi-part feature tool added for breaking multipart features into multiple single part features (lines and polygons only). **NOTE - THIS IS A SIMPLE EXPLODE ONLY AND DOES NOT SUPPORT COMPLEX GEOMETRY SUCH DONUT FEATURES - USING IT IN SUCH SITUATIONS MAY RESULT IN UNEXPECTED OUTCOMES.**  ## Planned Changes for Ecan versionoption to trigger this* Add interactive measurement options when drawing as per eDrawEcan widget.